add python3 migration guide (#5168)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/guide/python-3.md

| Python 2 | Python 2 and 3 |
| --- | --- |
| `mykeylist = mydict.keys()` | `mykeylist = list(mydict)` |
| `myitemlist = mydict.items()` | `myitemlist = list(mydict.items())` |
| `myvaluelist = mydict.values()` | `myvaluelist = list(mydict.values()` |

The `dict.has_key()` method is deprecated in Python 2 and is removed in Python 3. Use the `in` operator instead.

| Python 2 | Python 2 and 3 |
| --- | --- |
| `mydict.has_key('foo') //deprecated` | `foo in mydict` |

### Standard Library Changes

Python 3 features a reorganized standard library, where a number of modules and functions were renamed or moved. Importing moved modules through `six.moves` works on both Python versions.

| Python 2 | Python 3 | Python 2 and 3 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `import HTMLParser` | `import html.parser` | `from six.moves import html_parser` |

Consult the [six documentation][6] for the list of renamed modules. Note that the `urllib`, `urllib2`, and `urlparse` modules have been heavily reorganized.

### Unicode

> Python 2 treats unicode text and binary-encoded data in the same manner, and tries to automatically convert between bytes and strings as needed. This works as long as all characters are ASCII, but leads to unexpected behavior when non-ASCII characters are encountered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python 2 treats Unicode text and binary-encoded data the same, and tries to automatically convert between bytes and strings. This works as long as all characters are ASCII, but leads to unexpected behavior when it encounters non-ASCII characters.
```

| type | literal | Python 2 | Python 3 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| bytes | b'...' | binary | binary |
| str | '...' | binary | text |
| unicode | u'...' | text | text |

> Text data are Unicode code points; you must encode with `.encode(encoding)` for storage or transmission. Binary data are encoded code points represented as a sequence of bytes that must be decoded with `.decode(encoding)` back to text. When reading text from a file, the `open` function from the `io` package is handy because the data read is already decoded into Unicode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Text data is Unicode code points; you must encode with `.encode(encoding)` for storage or transmission. Binary data is encoded code points represented as a sequence of bytes that must be decoded with `.decode(encoding)` back to text. When reading text from a file, the `open` function from the `io` package is handy because the data read is already decoded into Unicode:
```

## Python Migration

### Package Imports

In an effort to standardize Datadog package namespacing, all resources now live under the base subpackage. So for example,

```python
from datadog_checks.checks import AgentCheck
```

would become

```python
from datadog_checks.base.checks import AgentCheck
```

### Six

[Six][5] is a Python 2/3 compatibility library intended to allow developers to ship ubiquitous Python code. Some of the examples below make use of six to make legacy Python 2 code compatible with Python 3.

### Dictionary methods

In Python 3, the `dict.iter[keys|items|values]` methods are not available.

| Python 2 | Python 2 and 3 |
| --- | --- |
| `for key in mydict.iterkeys():` <br/> &nbsp;&nbsp;`  ...` | `for key in mydict:`<br/> &nbsp;&nbsp;`  ...` |
| `for key, value in mydict.iteritems():`<br/> &nbsp;&nbsp;`  ...` | `from six import iteritems` <br/><br/> `for key, value in iteritems(mydict):`<br/> &nbsp;&nbsp;`  ...`|
| `for value in mydict.itervalues():`<br/> &nbsp;&nbsp;`  ...` | `from six import itervalues` <br/><br/> `for value in itervalues(mydict):`<br/> &nbsp;&nbsp;`  ...` |

> Also, in Python 3, the `dict.[keys|items|values]` methods are iterators. To retrieve a dictionary’s keys/items/values as a list:

Reviewer 2: Since we're trying to keep this simple for customers, wdyta just changing `are iterators` to `return iterators`?

> Also, in Python 3, the `dict.keys()`, `dict.items()`, `dict.values()` methods return iterators. To retrieve a dictionary’s keys/items/values as a list:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, in Python 3, the `dict.keys()`, `dict.items()`, `dict.values()` methods return iterators. Therefore, if the dictionary needs to be modified during iteration, it's necessary to make a copy first. To retrieve a dictionary’s keys/items/values as a list:
```

| Python 2 | Python 2 and 3 |
| --- | --- |
| `mykeylist = mydict.keys()` | `mykeylist = list(mydict)` |

> | `myitemlist = list(mydict.items())` | `// The Python 2 syntax works in Python 3, but if the dictionary needs to be modified during iteration, it's necessary to make a copy first.` <br/><br/> `from six import iteritems` <br/><br/> `myitemlist = list(iteritems(mydict))` |

Reviewer 2: Typo

```suggestion
| `myitemlist = mydict.items()` | `// The Python 2 syntax works in Python 3, but if the dictionary needs to be modified during iteration, it's necessary to make a copy first.` <br/><br/> `from six import iteritems` <br/><br/> `myitemlist = list(iteritems(mydict))` |
```

The `dict.has_key()` method is deprecated in Python 2 and is removed in Python 3. Use the `in` operator instead.

| Python 2 | Python 2 and 3 |
| --- | --- |
| `mydict.has_key('foo') //deprecated` | `foo in mydict` |

### Standard Library Changes

Python 3 features a reorganized standard library, where a number of modules and functions were renamed or moved. Importing moved modules through `six.moves` works on both Python versions.

| Python 2 | Python 3 | Python 2 and 3 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `import HTMLParser` | `import html.parser` | `from six.moves import html_parser` |

Consult the [six documentation][6] for the list of renamed modules. Note that the `urllib`, `urllib2`, and `urlparse` modules have been heavily reorganized.

### Unicode

Python 2 treats unicode text and binary-encoded data in the same manner, and tries to automatically convert between bytes and strings as needed. This works as long as all characters are ASCII, but leads to unexpected behavior when non-ASCII characters are encountered.

| type | literal | Python 2 | Python 3 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| bytes | b'...' | binary | binary |
| str | '...' | binary | text |
| unicode | u'...' | text | text |

> For string literals, it might be better to always use Unicode explicitly in Python 2, so they will work exactly the same when running in Python 3:

Reviewer 3: Not sure about that, at least that's not what we are doing for most integrations in `integrations-core`, where we use mainly the native string type.

cc @ofek

Reviewer 2: Yeah we should say "in some cases"

Author: I'm just going to take this out, seems too dubious

```python
s = u'This string will be the same in Python 2 and 3'
```

Text data are Unicode code points; you must encode with `.encode(encoding)` for storage or transmission. Binary data are encoded code points represented as a sequence of bytes that must be decoded with `.decode(encoding)` back to text. When reading text from a file, the `open` function from the `io` package is handy because the data read is already decoded into Unicode:

```python
from io import open

f = open('textfile.txt', encoding='utf-8')

> contents = f.read()  ;; contents will be decoded to unicode using ‘utf-8’; these are not bytes!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
contents = f.read()  # contents will be decoded to unicode using ‘utf-8’; these are not bytes!
```
